Update InfluxDB Docker content.md (#2586)
docker-library/docs: influxdb/content.md

Reviewer: - The overview paragraph should stay general for InfluxDB (not specific to InfluxDB 3).
- If `docker-library` doesn't generate or support a TOC, we need to be clear that the readme contains info for all 3 versions.
- We need to make sure we don't lose any existing instructions. I see you're linking to the v1 and v2 docs, which is good, but we need to verify they're comprehensive.

Reviewer: The [sample `compose.yaml`](https://github.com/docker-library/docs?tab=readme-ov-file#how-do-i-add-a-new-images-docs) for all 3 would be nice to have.

**This README covers all currently supported versions of InfluxDB:**

-	**InfluxDB 3** (Core and Enterprise)
-	**InfluxDB v2**
-	**InfluxDB v1**

Scroll to the appropriate section below for Docker setup instructions, configuration flags, and usage examples.

# InfluxDB Docker Image Overview

%%LOGO%%

InfluxDB is the time series database platform designed to collect, store, and process large amounts of timestamped data. InfluxDB supports high write and query workloads and is commonly used for:

-	Monitoring infrastructure and applications
-	Collecting data from IoT devices
-	Storing log and event data

InfluxDB offers multiple versions and deployment options to meet diverse technical and operational requirements.

## InfluxDB 3

> InfluxDB 3 is a new InfluxDB engine that uses an object store-backed architecture. It stores time series and event data using Apache Arrow and Parquet. It supports high-ingest workloads and fast queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
InfluxDB 3, the latest InfluxDB engine, uses Apache Arrow in-memory processing, the DataFusion SQL engine, and diskless
  object storage architecture. It delivers sub-10ms query response times, unlimited cardinality, and supports both SQL and InfluxQL.
```

- Don't include Parquet
- Callout the query engine and SQL and InfluxQL support.

> InfluxDB 3 comes in two editions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
InfluxDB 3 offers two editions--both provide SQL and InfluxQL query capabilities, an integrated processing engine for real-time
  data transformation, and seamless integration with InfluxDB 3 Explorer for data visualization and management:
```

-	**InfluxDB 3 Core**: A free, open source version of the new engine for local development and prototyping.
-	**InfluxDB 3 Enterprise**: A production-grade, scalable time series database that includes support for clustering, security, and enterprise features.

> **License key for Enterprise** To run InfluxDB 3 Enterprise, you need a license key. Obtain one from [InfluxData's pricing page](https://www.influxdata.com/pricing/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**License key for Enterprise** To run InfluxDB 3 Enterprise, you need a license key. Start with a free 30-day trial license by
  selecting the trial option when you first start the server. For more license options, see the [InfluxDB 3 Enterprise documentation](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb3/enterprise/admin/license/).
```

> For full documentation, visit the [InfluxDB 3 documentation site](https://docs.influxdata.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This should go at the end of the InfluxDB 3 section.

## Docker Images

Use the official images hosted on Quay.io:

> -	**Core:** `quay.io/influxdb/influxdb3:latest`  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-	**Core:** `quay.io/influxdb/influxdb3:latest`  
```
I don't think we should be pointing them to quay.io.

-	**Enterprise:** `quay.io/influxdb/influxdb3-enterprise:latest`

## Parameter glossary

| Parameter        | Description                                                     |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--host-id`      | Unique identifier for the InfluxDB Core server node. Required.  |
| `--node-id`      | Unique identifier for the node within an Enterprise cluster.    |
| `--object-store` | Backend storage type for metadata and WAL files (e.g., `file`). |
| `--data-dir`     | Path to the directory for data storage.                         |

# How to use this image

## Start InfluxDB 3 Core

> Run InfluxDB 3 Core using either Docker Compose or the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run InfluxDB 3 Core using Docker Compose or the Docker CLI.
```

```bash
docker container ls --filter "name=influxdb3"
docker kill <CONTAINER_ID>
```

### Docker CLI

Run this command to start the InfluxDB 3 Core container:

```bash
docker run -d --name influxdb3-core \
  -p 8086:8086 \
  quay.io/influxdb/influxdb3:latest \
  serve --host-id my-influxdb-node --object-store file --data-dir /var/lib/influxdb3
```

Once the container is running, generate an admin token:

```bash
docker exec -it influxdb3-core influxdb3 generate token --admin
```

Use the token to create a database:

```bash
docker exec -it influxdb3-core influxdb3 create database my_db --token YOUR_ADMIN_TOKEN
```

To check the server health:

```bash
curl localhost:8086/health
```

## Start InfluxDB 3 Enterprise

InfluxDB 3 Enterprise supports clustered deployments and advanced features. To start a local standalone Enterprise container for testing, provide your license key as an environment variable.

### Docker Compose

Create a `compose.yml` file with the following configuration:

%%COMPOSE%%

Start your container:

```bash
docker compose pull && docker compose run influxdb3-enterprise
```

## Docker with mounted file style object store

> Run this command to start the InfluxDB 3 Enterprise container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to start a container running an InfluxDB 3 Enterprise node:
```

```bash
docker run -d --name influxdb3-enterprise -p 8086:8086 \
  -v $PWD/plugins:/plugins \
  -v $PWD/data:/var/lib/influxdb3 \
  -e INFLUX_LICENSE_KEY="YOUR_LICENSE_KEY" \
  influxdb:enterprise serve \

>     --cluster-id cluster1 \

Reviewer: We should have an example using available environment variables, specific for Docker startup (if any) and InfluxDB3 variables. Users will want to source them from a file (`.env`, for example)

    --node-id node1 \
    --plugin-dir /plugins \
    --object-store file \
    --data-dir /var/lib/influxdb3
```

> Then, generate an admin token:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, generate an admin token to authorize CLI and API actions:
```

```bash
docker exec -it influxdb3-enterprise influxdb3 create token --admin
```

Use the token from the output to create a database.

```bash
docker exec -it influxdb3-enterprise influxdb3 create database enterprise_db --token <your_admin_token>
```

## Mount data to persist across restarts

To retain data across container restarts, mount a Docker volume or bind a local directory. Be sure to include the required `serve` command and storage configuration.

### Using a Docker volume

To persist data using a Docker-managed volume, run the following command:

```bash
docker run -d --name influxdb3-core \
  -v influxdb3-data:/var/lib/influxdb3 \

>   -p 8086:8086 \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -p 8181:8181 \
```
8086 is the v2 default port. This isn't exposed in an influxdb3 container.

Reviewer: ...unless you set it explicitly. We should just use the default in this README.

>   quay.io/influxdb/influxdb3:latest \

Reviewer: I don't think we should use quay.io here. Shouldn't it be the DockerHub image?

  serve --host-id my-influxdb-node --object-store file --data-dir /var/lib/influxdb3
```

This command:

-	Creates or reuses a Docker volume named `influxdb3-data`.

> -	Maps the default InfluxDB port (`8086`) to your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-	Maps the default InfluxDB port (`8181`) to your local machine.
```

-	Starts the InfluxDB server with a required host ID and object store configuration.

### Using a local host directory

To persist data in a local directory on your host, use the following command:

```bash
docker run -d --name influxdb3-core \
  -v $PWD/influxdb3-data:/var/lib/influxdb3 \
  -p 8086:8086 \

>   quay.io/influxdb/influxdb3:latest \

Reviewer: These aren't correct.

Author: @jstirnaman These are the commands I used when testing and they worked. What you would recommend I use instead, or can you point me to where I can find the documentation you would like me to source?

  serve --host-id my-influxdb-node --object-store file --data-dir /var/lib/influxdb3
```

This mounts a local folder named `influxdb3-data` in your current working directory. Ensure that this directory exists and has appropriate write permissions.

# InfluxDB v2

## How to use the InfluxDB v2 Docker image

Use the official [InfluxDB v2 Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/_/influxdb) to start an instance for development or testing.

```bash
docker run -d -p 8086:8086 \
  -v $PWD/data:/var/lib/influxdb2 \
  -v $PWD/config:/etc/influxdb2 \
  -e DOCKER_INFLUXDB_INIT_MODE=setup \
  -e DOCKER_INFLUXDB_INIT_USERNAME=my-user \
  -e DOCKER_INFLUXDB_INIT_PASSWORD=my-password \
  -e DOCKER_INFLUXDB_INIT_ORG=my-org \
  -e DOCKER_INFLUXDB_INIT_BUCKET=my-bucket \
  influxdb:2
```

> After the container starts, go to `http://localhost:8086` to access the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the container starts, visit [http://localhost:8086](http://localhost:8086) in your browser to view the UI.
```

For more information, see the [InfluxDB v2 Docker documentation](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2/install/?t=docker).

# InfluxDB v1

## How to use the InfluxDB v1 Docker image

Use the official [InfluxDB v1 Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/_/influxdb) to start a basic instance for development or testing:

```bash
docker run -d -p 8086:8086 \
  -v $PWD:/var/lib/influxdb \
  influxdb:1.8

> ```

Reviewer: For v1 and v2, we should keep the examples with the startup config env variables. Most users will want those.
